RFC-0522 Ember-Data Deprecate default serializers and adapters (#436)
ember-learn/deprecation-app: content/ember-data/v3/default-adapter.md

---
id: ember-data:default-adapter
title: Default adapter usage
until: '4.0.0'
since: '3.12.0'
---
## deprecate store.defaultAdapter (-json-api) and the -json-api adapter fallback behavior
A deprecation warning will be shown when the store's `defaultAdapter` is accessed.

> To remove this deprecation warnings, users should implement an application adapter.

Reviewer: I think we need more details here. Specifically, we _know_ what **exact** thing to tell them to do but this message is pretty vague. We know they were using the default adapter, and we know what that adapter actually is, which means that we can tell them something like:

```suggestion
To remove this deprecation warnings, create an `app/adapters/application.js` with the following:

    import { JSONAPIAdapter } from '@ember-data/adapters';

    export default JSONAPIAdapter.extend();
```

(I am not 100% sure on the import location for this, please double check / confirm)

Author: Yep, that's the correct location: https://guides.emberjs.com/release/models/customizing-adapters/

---
id: ember-data:default-adapter
title: Default adapter usage
until: '4.0.0'
since: '3.12.0'
---
## deprecate store.defaultAdapter (-json-api) and the -json-api adapter fallback behavior
A deprecation warning will be shown when the store's `defaultAdapter` is accessed.

> To remove this deprecation warnings, create an `app/adapters/application.js` with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove this deprecation warning, create an `app/adapters/application.js` with the following:
```

---
id: ember-data:default-adapter
title: Default adapter usage
until: '4.0.0'
since: '3.12.0'
---
## Deprecates both store.defaultAdapter (which defaults to -json-api) and the -json-api adapter fallback behavior

Previously, applications could define the store.adapter property which would be used by defaultAdapter and adapterFor as a fallback for when an adapter was not found by an exact name match.

> [RFC 522](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/522) Deprecated specifying and using these properties in favor of an explicit application adapter fallback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[RFC 522](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/522) Deprecated specifying and using this property in favor of an explicit application adapter fallback.
```

If you were not setting this value previously, the following should be sufficient to resolve this deprecation:

create the file app/adapters/application.js with the following:

```js
    export { default } from '@ember-data/adapters/json-api';
```

> If you were setting the adapter property previously to <adapter-name>, create the file app/adapters/application.js with the following:

Reviewer: I think we need to wrap the `<adapter-name>` thing in backticks because otherwise some markdown engines will strip it ("scary userland html").

```suggestion
If you were setting the adapter property previously to `<adapter-name>`, create the file app/adapters/application.js with the following:
```
